Welcome back you lovely God.
People in this video want to start making our locked doors.
Now this is just the first part of it all going to do is have a locked door.
That's a variant of a door that's going to bring up the pop up.
But first we have a bug to fix.
I'm sure this bug if I start the game.
Listen carefully for what happens.
Have that door opened a door open the moment the game started on make it a little easier to spot on
a duplicate these doors.
Let's put a couple of doors right up here we can see them.
So one here and one here these are the winners of the most pointless door award.
But let's see what happens.
See that they're already start.
So here's our book at the beginning of the level.
Something is triggering these doors.
Let's look at an easy way we can debug this in order to debug.
It's really helpful to start by stating the problem.
The doors are opening when the level starts where we know how doors work.
Because we made them.
Right.
They work by having an area to see.
And when the right kind of body enters that area to.
Not when it's in there but when it enters that area it triggers an opiate emission and lessens the player
which is the player has to go through an extra step.
Something is entering the doors the tension area and triggering the script.
We know it's not the player one the players out of range and to the play would have to click on it.
Now we're going to use print to try and figure out where this is going wrong.
So let's open up the door script and I'm not too concerned about which one because they're all using
door dot g-day so great we can just use dot Judy.
And what we do is right here where it says if not body equals Eagles player and the omission is not
play in other words when something enters and it's not the player.
And you're not already opening open and print when you are a print within a print What The thing is
open that's triggering this animation with a body name is a first step.
It's Pressplay.
And we can see here that three doors have opened and they've all been triggered by static body to deep
already.
That tells me what the problem is because I happen to remember that we've only use static body tedi
once but let's say you didn't happen to remember this or you know.
Spoiler alert look between videos which is what I really did.
What else can we do.
Well a static body is part of a node right it's a sub note.
So let's go up a loveless go get parent dot name.
So whatever the body is get its parent and get its name.
Let's see if that'll give us the name of what's happening.
And it's a sprite.
We're getting closer.
Just do it again.
Get parrot.
And we'll run that.
Elise we would do that put the dot in place.
Let's try that again.
Door.
Door to door three.
Somehow the door is getting in some way.
Well up on the scene the only static body we are using is this one is a child of Sprite which is a child
of door.
So this static body is triggering the script.
Well we've set up the collision of the salick body correctly.
Look it's part of the train and it interacts with players not itself.
Security cameras and guards but we have to.
This isn't the area detection.
This is the actual door.
Right.
What we need is the collision layer for than for the root node.
The door itself.
And that thinks it's a player that so that train and it can only interact with players and guards only
players and gas going into it.
Now we pressed play.
The doors don't open unless the guard comes through with the parent.
The power of the guard is level 1 or we enter.
So that solves our buck.
Let's go in and remove this print statement.
And we now have doors that don't open.
The moment the level starts but only open when someone is using them got to recycle these doors it's
put them somewhere useful.
But that's great that you can use print to try to figure out where is the logic breaking down.
That's a really important skill when you're making a game any kind of coding or programming when it's
going on track down exactly where the error is.
And print is an ideal way of doing that.
So OK right now we have three doors.
So one of the ideas we get a scene and we've done this before.
Just refresh your memory.
New inherited scene and going to go up a level because we're not inheriting level we're inheriting from
door.
This is our bases or opening that.
And this is our new scene.
Couple of ways you can be sure one under the name it's unsaved.
We haven't say the name of this two.
Everything here is greyed out.
That's because they're inherited and they haven't changed.
Andre when we when we change them let's call this a locked door.
First thing I a do is I want to change what the lock door looks like so I go down to sprite.
I want this to be immediately apparent to the player.
That's a normal door.
This door is a little different.
We've going to graphics under PRNG and other tiles scrolled down.
And you'll see here tile for six three.
That to me looks like a big steel door.
And we use that it's a weird colour though.
And the reason is with colour is I modulated that the original doors to make the doors stand out against
the background.
I didn't want them to be the same colour as the floor.
I gave them a slight pink tent.
Well we don't want that for the steel doors that makes them look like we had passed or pink doors which
I don't know what that is.
So let's modulate to white and I'm a save that as a locked door.
And here we have a lovely little steel door and I put one in the level.
You know what door three which one's door three when I move you to a good place of a hill any now can
always redo that later.
Let's put a steel door here.
Give us a brand new organizing note.
No too deep that I'm going to call locked doors.
Go to reorganize that later in the course.
But for now it looks solid and I got to put it right next to these doors so that they interact with
walls and floors the same way.
OK.
So let's.
Instance in new locked door.
Move that to what we need and zoom out a bit.
There you are.
And let's transform you by 90 degrees Whoops now ha.
See I just transformed the no to D that's organizing them all.
Not the actual notes so let's try that again.
Click on the locked door itself.
Down to transform.
And 90 degrees right correct.
There is a locked door.
Currently it's actually just the door if I open the script for it.
This the door script.
This needs its own script.
We're extending the scene but we need to inherit the script separately so let's remove the script from
a locked door and add a brand new script.
And just like every other time I would put this in the script holler and call it locked door and it's
going to inherit from door which is there.
Extends scripts dawdy.
G'day.
Fantastic.
So now this will behave exactly like a door but I need to give it some extra properties.
What I want to happen is when the player is in range the player walks up into the detection area and
clicks on the door.
It's going to bring up that lot no power to do that.
The first thing I need to do is instance in this not about let's instance in number pad.
I have to make sure I've selected the root note so select locked door an instance in number pad there
it is.
OK.
Open the doors script and let's go to big screen modocs exhumed doing.
And here's what I want.
When you click on the door what happens.
Let's just copy this function function input event if input is mouse button pressed button left and
you can click on it open.
But I don't want to open I would you do something else.
If I pace this in here this is now the new function input event for a locked door so it's overwriting
the thing in a script it's inheriting from instead of open.
I want to do something you want to do.
Well I want to go grab the number pad and use one of the pop up commands for it.
Let's take a look at the pop up commands.
First let's grab the number pad so is not a perfect ricked grabbed the number pad and I'm going to use
one of the pop up commands.
Let's take a look at them.
Somebody had a classes and type in a pop up as a pop up node.
All right.
Here are the methods we have pop up pop up centred pop up centred.
Minimum size and pop upsetted ratio.
I don't want the ratio the minimum size because in this particular game I'm not reciting the number
that I always wanted to be the same size.
If you want it to resize you should use medium size or ratio.
However I want pop up centred.
I want this to pop up in the centre of the screen.
It's not gonna do that initially but I'll show you why in a second.
So back into the script and I'll pop up underscore centred.
Okay right now this isn't going to have any functionality it's just going to show up.
Going down to my locked door.
Scuse me gonna want to get that first and I click on it but that's not centred right.
Why is it not centred because I've centred on the node not on screen.
I need some way of centreing it in the right place.
How would I do that.
Well the easiest way is to make no pad be a child of a canvas layer.
Like a canvas layer which isn't a type of node a canvas layer is a basic duport node so it's a node
that deals with the viewport and it's there specifically for gooey objects.
It doesn't inherit any position information.
When I make no pad a child of canvas layer and now when it's centred it's going to centre to the screen
not to the object that called.
However I need to make sure that no pad is now the right object because no pad is not the correct string.
So let's go.
Number Pad.
So it's cambuslang up a pair dot pop up centred pop up underscore centre that we are right this should
now work a little better.
Right.
Big screen.
Click on it and then it's perfect.
One thing I have noticed my font is the wrong colour on hover.
That's interesting I have to change that a minute.
In fact let's change that now.
So while we've spotted this quick bug Let's go to our number pad.
They're easy to fix.
I just need to get to the theme and I want the is my button.
Yes I am.
Okay.
Font colour is black.
I need font colour highlight and font colour press to also be black which can set those very quickly.
Save my theme.
And now when I walk up to the door.
Forget that the Guard and click on it.
Excellent.
Look at that beautiful number pad.
However when I walk away from it the number pedestal here I can click off screen and all vanish.
But I would like the number pad to vanish when the player walks away from the door.
And that's my challenge for you.
I'd like you to make the number pad pop up hide when the player leaves the door area tip because we
haven't actually talked about what function to use.
If I'm using pop up or pop up centred to show the pop up use hide as a function to hide it when you
need to leave some poor Lydia seething at the number pad to vanish when the player moves away from the
door.
And when you come back I'll show you my solution.
And well Mac.
First thing I do is go into the door script which is right here and grab on body it on door body exert
it so copy that and go into a locked door.
I'm now going to override this function.
And what's he going to do as well as can he calls false.
I'm going to bring up the number pad.
It's not auto completing because I'm not actually in the right scenes that doesn't know what to look.
So let's get a lockdown.
There we go.
I got the number pad which is cavalier number pad.
Hide save that and see how that works.
Running for the dog.
There's my neighbour Pat.
Looks beautiful and I move away from the door and it vanishes.
Awesome.
So we now have a number pad that shows up when we need it and if we need to run from the door it gets
out of our way.
That's key because I really don't want the player to feel like oh goodness why is there have been going
on when I'm trying to escape from a guard.
So a quick refresher on how pop up notes work.
These things were designed principally for things like dialogue boxes menus inventory screens but they're
also useful for things like no pads they're hidden when the game starts so we can look at the main engine
to edit them.
But the moment the game starts the player can't see them.
We need to use one of the pop up functions to reveal them and we get high them again with hide and that
brings us to the end of this video.
In this video we've covered simple debugging steps and why print is really helpful and how to show and
hide.
A pop up note.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.